Cloud 158 configuration option (#124)
percona/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator: configure/options.md

Changing MySQL Options
============================================================================

> MySQL allows the option to configure the database with a configuration file. You can pass the MySQL configuration options to the cluster in the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can pass MySQL options from the `my.cnf` configuration file to the cluster in the following ways:
```
Let's suppose the reader already knows about MySQL configuration file... Well, for those who doesn't know about it  we can make my.cnf a hyperlink to the upstream documentation page, e.g. https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/option-files.html

* CR.yaml
* ConfigMap

### Edit the CR.yaml

> Edit the configuration section of the deploy/cr.yaml. See the [PXC section]( https://percona.github.io/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator/configure/operator).

Reviewer: It would be good to have an example here, for example an uncommented fragment of cr.yaml starting from this line: https://github.com/percona/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator/blob/3d92c5c3a0b05fcb22a4b19c22c982071415b10e/deploy/cr.yaml#L15

### Use a Configmap

> A configmap allows a user to separate configurations from the pods. Configmaps store unencrypted configuration settings. For sensitive information, the user should use Secrets.

Reviewer: It may be useful to avoid mentioning encryption and encrypted settings here, as this exact doc is about unencrypted options from my.cnf,  and mentioning encryption may drive some readers to the idea that it's possible to keep some ordinary my.cnf options hidden and cyphered :)

```
spec:
  secretsName: my-cluster-secrets
  pxc:
    ...
      configuration: |
        [mysqld]
        wsrep_debug=ON
        [sst]
        wsrep_debug=ON
```
See the [Custom Resource options, PXC section](https://percona.github.io/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator/configure/operator.html) for more details

### Use a ConfigMap

You create or apply a configmap file to set Percona XtraDB Cluster configuration options. The ConfigMap allows Kubernetes to pass or update configuration data inside a containerized application.

For example, to increase your max_connections setting in MySQL, you create a my.cnf file:
```
[mysqld]
...
max_connections=250
```
You can create a configmap in a text editor and apply it with the `kubectl apply` command or use the `kubectl` command to create the configmap from a directory, files, or literal values, see [Configure a Pod to use a ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/#create-a-configmap).

In this example, we use `kubectl` to create a configmap, add cnf-options as the configmap name, and use the my-cnf file as the data source:

```bash

> kubectl create configmap cnf-options --from-file=my.cnf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl create configmap <cluster-name> --from-file=my.cnf
```

```

> In the configmap, the `data` section contains the configuration settings for the Percona XtraDB Cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Here <cluster-name> should be substituted with the real name of your cluster, which in its turn can be obtained with the `kubectl get pxc` command:

In the configmap, the `data` section contains the configuration settings for the Percona XtraDB Cluster:
```

```
apiVersion:v1

> kind: ConfigMap

Reviewer 2: this example is not needed if `kubectl create configmap` way exists

Changing MySQL Options
============================================================================

MySQL allows the option to configure the database with a configuration file. You can pass the MySQL options from the [my.cnf](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/option-files.html) configuration file to the cluster in one of the following ways:
* CR.yaml
* ConfigMap

### Edit the CR.yaml

> Edit the configuration section of the deploy/cr.yaml. See the [PXC section]( https://percona.github.io/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator/configure/operator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can just place any options from the [my.cnf](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/option-files.html) file inside the configuration section of the deploy/cr.yaml:
```

```
spec:
  secretsName: my-cluster-secrets
  pxc:
    ...
      configuration: |
        [mysqld]
        wsrep_debug=ON
        [sst]
        wsrep_debug=ON
```

> 

Reviewer: See the [Custom Resource options, PXC section]( https://percona.github.io/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator/configure/operator) for more details.

### Use a ConfigMap

You can create and apply a configmap.yaml file to set Percona XtraDB Cluster configuration options. The ConfigMap allows Kubernetes to pass or update configuration data inside a containerized application.

> 

Reviewer: Please place configmap example here, and not later.

You can use the `kubectl create configmap` command to create a configmap, see [Configure a Pod to use a ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/#create-a-configmap). For example, you can create a ConfigMap.yaml file from a my.cnf file for the cluster1-pxc cluster:

```bash

> kubectl create configmap cluster1-pxc --from-file=my.cnf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl create configmap <cluster-name> --from-file=my.cnf
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Here ``<cluster-name>`` should be substituted with the real name of your cluster, which in its turn can be obtained with the following command:

```bash
   kubectl get pxc
```
```

> ```

Reviewer: I'd recommend putting the following text here (with formatted bash code, of course):

Here ``<cluster-name>`` should be substituted with the real name of your cluster, which in its turn can be obtained with the following command:

   kubectl get pxc

> In the configmap.yaml file, the `data` section contains the configuration settings for the Percona XtraDB Cluster.

Reviewer: Please move this explanation and the following configmap example upwards.

```
apiVersion:v1
kind: ConfigMap
...
data:
  init.cnf: |
    [mysqld]
    max_connections=250
```

> The user applies the ConfigMap to the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user applies the ConfigMap to the cluster with the following command:
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f configmap.yaml
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Make changed options visible to the Percona XtraDB Cluster

```

> Restart the cluster and connect to the MySQL instance (see details on how to connect in the [Install Percona XtraDB Cluster on Kubernetes page.](https://percona.github.io/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator/install/kubernetes))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget to restart Percona XtraDB Cluster to make it seeing the updated configuration. 
```

> 

Reviewer: I'd remove everything after this line because `max_connections` option is just an example, so any options may be changed and need to be verified... So it's better to either not mention verification or to somehow rewrite it in general form.

### Edit the CR.yaml

You can add options from the [my.cnf](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/option-files.html) by editing the configuration section of the deploy/cr.yaml.

```
spec:
  secretsName: my-cluster-secrets
  pxc:
    ...
      configuration: |
        [mysqld]
        wsrep_debug=ON
        [sst]
        wsrep_debug=ON
```
See the [Custom Resource options, PXC section](https://percona.github.io/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator/configure/operator.html) for more details

### Use a ConfigMap

During application deployments on an XtraDB cluster, changing the configuration would require a source code change, commit the change, and perform the complete deployment process. This procedure could be considered unwieldy for a simple set of changes. You can use a configmap and the cluster restart to reset configuration options. A configmap allows Kubernetes to pass or update configuration data inside a containerized application.

Use the `kubectl` command to create the configmap from external resources, for more information see [Configure a Pod to use a ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/#create-a-configmap).

> Your application requires more connections. To increase your max_connections setting in MySQL, you define a my.cnf configuration file with the following setting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, let's suppose that your application requires more connections. To increase your ``max_connections`` setting in MySQL, you define a ``my.cnf`` configuration file with the following setting:
```

```
[mysqld]
...
max_connections=250
```

> You can create a configmap from the my.cnf file with the 'kubectl create configmap' command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a configmap from the ``my.cnf`` file with the ``kubectl create configmap`` command.
```

You should use the combination of the cluster name with the `-pxc` suffix as the naming convention for the configmap. To find the cluster name, you can use the following command:
```bash
kubectl get pxc
```
The syntax for `kubectl create configmap` command is:
```

> kubectl create configmap <cluster-name-pxc> <resource-type=resource-name>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl create configmap <cluster-name>-pxc <resource-type=resource-name>
```
